Dear campers and families,
Only a few weeks are left, and we are super excited to spend time with you kids in our beloved Camp Sunapee!
We would like for you to review our camp policies and procedures. We are not holding parents meeting this year, so please read it carefully.
1. Food
We live in an outdoor camp, with animals that live around our camp grounds. Any food in the cabins will attract pests, mice and bears. In addition to the danger, it creates a great amount of litter. And lastly, it is completely unnecessary.
Your child is being fed three complete meals a day, with a snack break in the middle of the day with fresh fruit, and cookies, milk and tea in the evenings. There is absolutely no need for extra food that will cause potential harm, litter, and stomach aches for our campers, so please don't pack any foods, snacks, or drinks.
2. Illegal Substances
Anyone bringing to camp any illegal substance, or things like cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana or vapes will be expelled from camp and send home immediately with no right to return the current year or in the future.
3. Cell Phones/Electronics
We have a very delicate utopia at camp where we all escape from the distractions and technology consumed in everyday life. Children are allowed to be themselves, with no fear of judgement and total acceptance.
Cell phones provide an outlet to the outside world, ruining the utopia that we have at our camp. This Utopian environment is what makes our camp so very special. We have had a strict no cell phone policy for campers, including CIT/CHs, so please make sure you child leaves a phone with you, or turns it in to us at check in, right at arrival at camp.
If you need to reach your child, there are a number of outlets:
a. You can send emails to camp@russianschool.com with your child's name in the subject line. We print these emails every day (before 11am), and hand them out at noon assembly.
b. You can send letters and care packages. Your child is also welcomed to send letters, so please provide them with envelopes and stamps.
Camp RSM @ Sunapee
PO Box 177, Georges Mills, NH 03751
c. additionally, we will be posting pictures on Facebook as often as possible for you to see your child and how much fun they are having each day. And in case of an emergency, camp administrators will call you ASAP.
4. Check Ins and Visiting Days
First Session begins on June 23 and ends July 6 and Second Session begins on July 7 and ends July 20. Your drop off time slot will be sent to you a week before the start of the session.
**Important for out of state campers** If your child is flying in to Manchester, NH airport, and requires transportation to our camp grounds, please send us an email with your child's flight details so we can arrange for a pick-up. Please send it to camp@russianschool.com and put "transportation needed" in the subject line.
There are NO Visiting Days this year for campers staying for one session. If your child is staying for both sessions, you can visit and even take you kid home until Sunday. If you opt not to do it we will happily have them stay in camp in between sessions and we will help to do their laundry before the start of the second session.
5. Laundry
We do not have laundry facilities on site. Please pack according to the packing list (attached).
6. Packing List (Attached)
Your child should be ready for all weather conditions, which could range from 40 F to 95 F, rain and shine. We have limited shelf space, and suitcases will NOT be allowed to remain in the cabins. Campers should bring ONE plastic storage organizer like this: https://a.co/d/0Y6iQoJ for all their clothes.
For the essentials:
1. Your child should have a  pillow and fitted sheet and sleeping bag that will keep him/her warm and a lighter blanket for the hotter nights.
2. Your child MUST have a hat (recommend to pack two) clearly labeled! We play sports every day under the sun and your child needs to be prepared and protected from the weather. Especially for girls, please be sure to find a hat that your child likes and will gladly wear.
3. Your child MUST have TWO water bottles clearly labeled. We are forbidding plastic disposable water bottles as they cause extra garbage and an unnecessary expense to parents. It is especially important to label water bottles to prevent spreading germs. As stated in the previous bullet point, we are an outdoor, active camp and your child needs to stay hydrated and refill his/her water bottle multiple times a day.
4. Your child MUST have good rain gear. Sneakers and umbrellas will NOT do the trick. Please make sure your child has waterproof shoes or boots, and a rain jacket or a sturdy poncho.
5. Your child should also have a backpack. We go on hikes, and outdoor day trips which require one. It can be their school backpack, nothing fancy, but it is very important to have (should be comfortable to wear for a hike)
Lastly, it is of the utmost importance that all of your child's belongings are labeled. Each year, we donate hundreds of items of clothing and accessories. Please help us, help you and your child. Label everything from undergarments to jackets to towels to shoes. Here is a recommended site to order labels www.namebubbles.com
7. Health
Please don't bring a child to camp if he/she is sick - in this case, please let us know that you willl be arriving later, when the symptoms resolve.
We need all the health forms to be submitted by now. For those whose physical is scheduled for later days, you can submit it later but not later than June 16th. No camper will be admitted to camp if we have any missing forms, so please make sure your forms are all uploaded on your parent portal. Please, don't send paper forms to RSM Newton, nobody is there to upload them.
We hope that this letter has helped you understand the importance of our camp policies. You and your child's compliance will help improve and maintain the environment that we look forward to each year.  If you have any questions don’t hesitate to ask: camp@russianschool.com.
Best regards,
Olga Pristin, Ann Baranov and Ellen Arbeznik
RSM Camp Directors
RSM Camp Packing List
Clothing bathing suit (2) towel (1 beach, 1 shower = 2 total) fleece jacket rain gear (mandatory! Jacket and boots/waterproof shoes)  sweat shirt (2)  T-shirts (13, 2 plain white t-shirts for various camp activities) long sleeve shirts (2) sweat pants (2) shorts (5) underwear (13) socks (cotton) (13) socks (warm) (2) sneakers (2) beach shoes evening (2) Hat (2) (mandatory!)
Accessories sleeping bag : medium (3 lb) pillow bed sheet flashlight (little MAG for $12 will do) (mandatory!) water bottles (2) (mandatory!) backpack bug spray sunblock toiletries
Please note that sandals will not be allowed this year. Only crocs, sneakers or closed toe
shoes!
All your belongings must be labeled.